
# Glossary

This glossary is intended to provide a **list of common terms** and a short explanation of them.

* **Accidental fork:** occurs in a blockchain when two or more miners find a block almost at the same time. Thus, both blocks have the same block height.
* **Application programming interface (API):** a software developer toolbox that makes it easier to develop computer programs by providing all the building blocks for the programmer. APIs can take many forms, but usually contain a set of clearly defined methods of communication between various software components.
* **Authentication:** the process of confirming an identity. 
* **Backward compatibility:** product, system, or technology that is able to operate with an older version.
* **Block: a list of transactions in a set sequence. 
* **Blockchain:** a well-ordered set of blocks, in which all transactions since inception are ordered and included. 
* **Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT):** a characteristic of systems that tolerate failures that belong to the Byzantine Generals Problem. 
* **Byzantine Generals Problem:** a consensus-reaching problem applicable to hierarchy-free, permission-less, and failure-prone networks. 
* **CAP Theorem:** or Brewer's theorem, a theorem that posits that in distributed systems one can choose 2 properties, either: consistency and/or availability and/or partition tolerance. 
* **Client:** a computer in a network that is capable of obtaining information and applications from a server. 
* **Client-server model:** a structure in which data supplier and consumer roles are ascribed to different entities and all communication happens through a central server, i.e. tasks are differentiated between the provider of a service and/or resource, the servers, and the service requesters, the clients. 
* **Consensus mechanism:** a fault-tolerant mechanism used in blockchain systems to achieve consensus, i.e. agreement on the state of the blockchain. 
* **Cryptography:** use of codes and ciphers to secure communication, messages, and information.
* **Data:** a series of one or more symbols given meaning by acts of interpretation, i.e. a set of values.
* **Data field:** holds a single attribute of an entity. For example, a date field (e.g. 15th of October 2018) can be treated as a single data field (e.g. birthdate) or three separate fields (e.g. day, month, and year).
* **Database:** an organised collection of data.
* **Database management system (DBMS):** a program or system that manages and interacts with a database. 
* **Delegated-proof-of-stake (DPoS):** a consensus mechanism using voting and a social system of reputation.
* **Deployment pattern:** the pattern of deployment, i.e. all processes needed to set up and run new software or hardware including among others the installation, configuration, running, and testing.
* **Distributed ledger:** a database with ledgers held and updated by each participant, in which data is not communicated through a central authority but is independently held and updated by each user/node.
* **Double-spending:** a potential disadvantage and phenomenon of digital cash, in which a digital token can be spent more than once.
* **Encryption:** the process of encoding the message as it is meant for a specific authorized party.
* **Gas:**
* **Fault tolerance:** the capability of a computer, electronic system, or network to continue operating even while individual components fail.
* **Forking: describes a process in which a developer works on a copy of a source code to create a new, independent piece of software. In the blockchain context, the term forking describes an analogous mechanism, but it is applied and intended for different purposes.
* **Hard fork:** a change in the protocol of a blockchain that is not backward-compatible.
* **Hash function:** a function used to map a group of characters (i.e. data) into values of certain length called hash values or hash. Cryptographic hash functions are a special form of one-way hash functions that exhibit certain features (deterministic, fast, resistant, and unique, as well as having an avalanche effect) to allow for their implementation in cryptography.
* **Immutability:** the unchangeability of objects over time and/or the inability to perform changes. 
* **Intentional fork:** a fork intentionally generated by either a developer or an attacker. They can be either hard or soft forks. 
* **Ledger:** a book or file that records and totals economic transactions. It often contains data on the sender, recipient, amount, credit/debit, and a reference. 
* **Ledger keeper:** a trusted authority that maintains the ledger. 
* **Mainframe computer:** large high-speed computers used for critical applications by large organisations. 
* **Managed blockchain:** a permissioned blockchain network; a blockchain network characterised by restricted access. 
* **Merkle Tree:** or hash tree named after Ralph Merkle, a tree with leaf nodes labelled with a hash of a data block and with non-leaf nodes labelled with a cryptographic hash of its child nodes. 
* **Minimum Nakamoto coefficient:** the minimum number of entities in a given subsystem required to get the total capacity, aggregated by taking the minimum of the minimum across the subsystems. 
* **Network:** a group or system of interconnected computers and other hardware devices. 
* **Network database:** a database with a graph structure in which objects and their relationships are represented in a flexible way. Each record can have multiple parent and child records. 
* **Networking:** the hardware side and software protocols used to transmit data and with it computer communication. 
* **Node:** or network participant, connected through communication channels that enable them to exchange data and share resources. 
* **Orphan:** a block rejected by the blockchain network because of a delay in time but still valid and verified. They exist in isolated form. Comparable to uncle blocks in Ethereum and mostly used as a term in Bitcoin. 
* **Peer-to-peer (P2P):** a network form with a distributed architecture, i.e. work is distributed among the network members, in which all participants are equally privileged and equipotent. 
* **Peers:** term used to refer to nodes in  P2P networks. 
* **Permissioned blockchain:** a blockchain in which an individual or group of participants holds the authority to validate blocks of transactions or to participate in the consensus mechanism. 
* **Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (PBFT):** a three-phased protocol in which a client send a request to a so-called primary. 
* **Proof-of-Activity (PoA):** a consensus mechanism that combines PoW and PoS by starting the mining process as in PoW and afterwards changing to PoS. 
* **Proof-of-Burn (PoB):** a mechanism relying on miners demonstrating that they have burned some coins, i.e. send coins to un-spendable addresses. 
* **Proof-of-Capacity (PoC):** a consensus mechanism that uses the memory or hard disk drive of a user to reach consensus. 
* **Proof-of-Elapsed-Time (PoET):** a mechanism in which every user waits a random amount of time until the first participant finished waiting becomes the &quot;leader&quot;, i.e. the user eligible to create a block. 
* **Proof-of-Importance (PoI):** a mechanism using network theory to assign an importance rating to each account. 
* **Proof-of-Stake (PoS):** block mining and validation based on the amount of coins hold by the user. 
* **Proof-of-Work (PoW):** a consensus mechanism based on economic measures to deter attacks, in which a cryptographic puzzle is solved. 
* **Protocol:** a set of rules and procedures (like behavioural guidelines) used for data transmission between electronic devices. 
* **Public blockchain:** a blockchain network characterised by open access. 
* **Public key infrastructure (PKI):** a set of policies, procedures, and processes used to create, distribute, manage, use, store, and revoke digital certificates and public keys. 
* **Public-key cryptography:** also known as asymmetric cryptography, is a form of cryptography based on key pairs, i.e. a public and private key. 
* **Record:** a collection of fields containing exactly one value. Its entity type defines the field the record comprises. A record is comparable to a row/tuple in relational databases and an entity type to a table/relation. An employee record might contain fields like name, address, and birthdate.File: a collection of related records. If there are 100 employees, each employee would have a record, and the collection of 100 of such records would constitute a file. 
* **Server:** a computer or computer program which manages access to a centralised resource or service in a network. 
* **Smart contract:** a computer protocol intended to provide a self-executing, self-enforcing, and self-verifying contract. 
* **Soft fork:** a change of the protocol with which the rules enforced are restricted. It is backward-compatible. 
* **Tagged private blockchain:** a blockchain network in which all nodes are operated within an organisation (no external access) and every few blocks the block hash is pushed to a public network by tagging. 
* **Tagging:** a method whereby every few blocks, the block hash (i.e. the signature that uniquely identifies a certain block) is pushed to a public network or other legally immutable place.
* **Transaction fee:** a fee charged for each transaction. 
* **Transaction:** an atomic event. 
* **Uncle:** an uncle is a block generated simultaneously with another block leading to a not-simultaneous acceptance of both blocks, i.e. a delay. In Ethereum, this block creation delay has to be resolved by finding consensus on which of the new blocks is going to be the next one. The block that is rejected, the one with the lowest share of proof-of-work, becomes an uncle block. The block with the larger share of proof-of-work becomes part of the blockchain as a normal block.
* **Use case:** used in system analysis as a mean to identify and organise systems. In software and system engineering, a number of actions and interactions between roles and the system are catalogued to visually model a specific case. 
